---
layout: post
title: "Syphilisation Update - 2019-03-24"
tag: syph
date: 2019-03-24
desc: "Syphilisation Update - 2019-03-24"
---


You can read about what *Syphilisation* is [here](/blog/syph/announce) and the manifesto for the game [here](/blog/syph/manifesto).

## Work Done

This whole week just had me cleaning up the game. I fixed a large number of bugs and cleaned up a couple of the uglier parts of the code base and just spent a lot of time playing what I already had. For a game like this, things feel a lot better if the consequences of each of the actions are clearly shown. It's a complex game already and adding this transparency really helps.


The game still feels a little empty though. There's not enough to do and not enough going on. I'm going to spend the next week trying to add more variety in both of these two early stages.

## Interesting Fact

I finally finished *Gandhi & Churchill* this week and picked up a bunch of interesting things from it. The book alleges that many Hindu members of the ministry during the Bengal famine made a lot of money profiteering in rice. It also says that Jinnah used to call Nehru "Peter Pan" as he was the boy who never grew up. My favorite fact for the week though is easily Viceroy Wavell parodying the Jabberwocky after Gandhi refused to go along with the Cabinet Mission plan.


"Beware the Gandhiji, my son,<br />
the satyagraha, the bogy-fast...<br />
The Gandhiji, on wrecking bent,<br />
Came trippling down the bangi ways,<br />
And woffled as he went"


