---
layout: post
title: 'Syphilisation Update - 2019-11-17'
tag: syph
date: 2019-11-17
desc: Syphilisation Update - 2019-11-17
---


You can read about what *Syphilisation* is [here](/blog/syph/announce) and the manifesto for the game [here](/blog/syph/manifesto).

## Work Done

This week again had a lot of stabilization work, but I got a major, exciting feature done. I built a build-a-war feature, so now you build out each war by putting together different pieces that you get from the research tree. This has also supplanted the trade system and so you can tie scouting out your opponents with giving or taking from that player so as to adjust the difficulty of that war. Playing with it has actually been a lot of fun and also a lot clearer than what was there before.


Besides that though, the work has all been stabilization. The eXpansion phase is fairly solid right now, but I do want more time to test it out. This foundation needs to be really good before I can get a feel for the eXploitation phase, but I'll try to get to that next week as well.


I actually had a pretty productive week and finished all of the work that I scheduled, which is not that common. However, I also schedule leisure into my week and I didn't get anywhere near finishing that this week. I started a new game of *Civ 6*. I haven't played enough of the last expansion and I want to mess around with it a bit. I also put Sartre's *Colonialism and Neocolonialism* on my list, but didn't get to go that deep into that book this week. I'm going to try to make sure this week catches me up with these.

## Interesting Fact

In *Colonialism and Neocolonialism*, Sartre talks about colonialism in Algeria and mentions that war in Algeria in 1956 cost more than the 300B francs that it brought in revenue. He writes that this is inevitable as the systems of colonization inevitably cause the escalation of unrest and so colonialism is doomed to its own destruction. This is a point that plays out differently in different colonial systems, but Sartre breaks it down brilliantly when it comes to Algeria.

