---
layout: post
title: 'Syphilisation Update - 2020-10-18 - Biomes'
tag: syph
date: 2020-10-18
desc: Redesigning the biomes.
---


You can buy a very early version of Syphilisation [here](https://whynotgames.itch.io/nikhil-murthys-syphilisation). You can read about what *Syphilisation* is [here](/blog/syph/announce) and the manifesto for the game [here](/blog/syph/newManifesto).

## Work Done

The major feature of this week was redesigning the biomes. Now, they are meaningfully distinct in a number of ways and they push the players into focusing their cities. This also let me fix my economy for eXploitation currencies, but I haven't fully tested that out yet. I really like the way the biomes now feel novel when you open them up and how they've made settling cities and developing them much more interesting.


I also added a move animation and put in a couple of features to keep the player from being overloaded with research options. I also fixed a few images and some minor bugs.

## Interesting Fact

I integrated a pair of Orwell essays this week and this quote is from his *Reflections on Gandhi* on the difference between Gandhi and the Western Left - "Of late years it has been the fashion to talk about Gandhi as though he were not only sympathetic to the Western Left-wing movement, but were integrally part of it. Anarchists and pacifists, in particular, have claimed him for their own, noticing only that he was opposed to centralism and State violence and ignoring the other-worldly, anti-humanist tendency of his doctrines. But one should, I think, realize that Gandhi's teachings cannot be squared with the belief that Man is the measure of all things and that our job is to make life worth living on this earth, which is the only earth we have. They make sense only on the assumption that God exists and that the world of solid objects is an illusion to be escaped from."

