---
layout: post
title: "Syphilisation Update - 2020-10-11 - Pending Features"
tag: syph
date: 2020-10-10
desc: "An overview of the pending features and a couple of small improvements."
---


You can buy a very early version of Syphilisation [here](https://whynotgames.itch.io/nikhil-murthys-syphilisation). You can read about what *Syphilisation* is [here](/blog/syph/announce) and the manifesto for the game [here](/blog/syph/newManifesto).

## Work Done

The major feature from this week was building out a list of missing features. You can look through that [here](/blog/syph/feature). The major features planned for the next few months are combat, designed biomes, culture systems and the storyline. Additionally, there are a large number of satellite features that the game would benefit from. The goal is to get all of that done over the next couple of months and get the game to the point where it is representative of the play experience that I want from it, even if not fully anti-colonial.


Besides that, I updated the quest / region menu and the menu to declare actions on other players, fixed some small bugs and playtested. The game is largely stable right now. It's uncommon for a game-breaking bug to show up. However, they do still ahppen occasionally and I would appreciate hearing about any bugs you might happen across.

## Interesting Fact

I just integrated The Kingdom of God Is Within You by Leo Tolstoy last week and I wanted to end this with the following quote, "those who seek after peace, and behave kindly and harmlessly, forgiving and forgetting injuries, for the most part enjoy peace, or, if they die,they die blessed. In this way, if all kept the ordinance of non-resistance, there would obviously be no evil nor crime. If the majority acted thus they would establish the rule of love and good will even over evil doers, neer opposing evil with evil, and never resorting to force. If there were a moderately large minority of such men, they would exercise such a salutary moral influence on society that every cruel punishment would be abolished, and violnce and feud would be replaced by peace and love. Even if there were only a small minority of them, they would rarely experience anything worse than the wrold's contempt, and meantime the world, though unconscious of it, and not grateful for it, would be continually becoming wiser and better for their unseen action on it."

