---
layout: post
title: "Syphilisation Update - 2020-12-13 - Tooltips"
tag: syph
date: 2020-12-13
desc: "Tooltips"
---


You can buy a very early version of Syphilisation [here](https://whynotgames.itch.io/nikhil-murthys-syphilisation). You can read about what *Syphilisation* is [here](/blog/syph/announce) and the manifesto for the game [here](/blog/syph/newManifesto).

## Work Done

This week centered around making the game easier to play. I cleaned up some menus and made some visual changes to make things clearer. I also added tutorial pages for more of the game functions. There were complicated elements like setting up prayer sites that were completely unexplained, so this should hopefully make it easier for players to get into the game. Finally, I put in tooltips. These really do a lot to make games of this genre accessible. I also made them nested, which was fun to put together.

## Interesting Fact

For this week, I'll put in the quote from *Ulysses* that sparked this game - "So J. J. puts in a word, doing the toff about one story was good till you heard another and blinking facts and the Nelson policy, putting your blind eye to the telescope and drawing up a bill of attainder to impeach a nation, and Bloom trying to back him up moderation and botheration and their colonies and their civilisation.
Their syphilisation, you mean, says the citizen. To hell with them! The curse of a goodfornothing God light sideways on the bloody thicklugged sons of whores' gets! No music and no art and no literature worthy of the name. Any civilisation they have they stole from us. Tonguetied sons of bastards' ghosts."

