---
layout: post
title: "Syphilisation Update - 2020-11-29 - Culture"
tag: syph
date: 2020-11-29
desc: Updates to culture.
---


You can buy a very early version of Syphilisation [here](https://whynotgames.itch.io/nikhil-murthys-syphilisation). You can read about what *Syphilisation* is [here](/blog/syph/announce) and the manifesto for the game [here](/blog/syph/newManifesto).

## Work Done

I put in the idea of culture this week. Both the biomes and the players each have a culture which is affected by what the players produce and build as well as some of the actions they take and then gives bonuses to the relevant areas. This is another of my history-from-below features. Besides that, I put in a bunch of minor fixes and improvements.


My plan for December is to freeze the features for a while and just work on reducing the complexity and streamlining what's currently inside. I also need to take stock of how effective the features of the past two months have been.

## Interesting Fact

For this week, I have an interesting quote from Peter Frankopan's *Silk Roads* - "It was not that aggression did not exist in other societes. As numerous examples across other continents would show, any conquest could bring death and suffering on a large scale. But periods of explosive expansion across Asia and North Africa, such as in the extraordinary first decades of the spread of Islam or during the time of the Mongol conquests, were followed by long periods of stability, peace and prosperity. The frequency and rhythm of warfare was different in Europe to other parts of the world: no sooner would one conflict be resolved than another would flare up. Competition was brutal and relentless. In that sense, seminal works like Thomas Hobbes' Leviathan were quintessential texts that explained the rise of the west. Only a European author could have concluded that the natural state of man was to be in a constant state of violence and only a European author would have been right."

