---
layout: post
title: "Syphilisation Update - 2020-08-30"
tag: syph
date: 2020-08-30
desc: Bookkeeping update
---


You can read about what *Syphilisation* is [here](/blog/syph/announce) and the manifesto for the game [here](/blog/syph/newManifesto).

## Work Done

The past few weeks have stil mostly been centered around stability and quality of life fixes. It's very labor-intensive and just not that interesting to write about. There's still a way to go with that too. However, if you're interested in trying the game out in this early stage and don't mind that the anti-colonial stuff is still mostly missing, then ping me and I'll send you a key. I'm very close to putting it on itch for early access. I'm going to take the next week as a final set of checks before I put it up.


I also put in an early anti-colonial hook, early prayer units. I'm going to play with it over the next week and flesh it out before writing it out though. I'm quite excited about it. I think this will help sell the player on the conceit of the game right from the start and that makes it much easier for the rest of the game to resonate with the player. It should buy me the time that I need for the player to see some of the deeper points that the game makes.

## Interesting Fact

This is a direct quote from the Collected Works of Mahatma Gandhi about the first Independence Day - "The Congress Ministers of the Government of Bengal interviewed Gandhiji at 3.30 p. m. One of the questions which they wanted to discuss was the manner in which the 15th should be celebrated. Gandhiji said, according to him, the advice could only be for fasting, prayer and a dedication to the spinning-wheel. What else could they do when all around the country was burning, when people were dying from lack of food and clothing?"

