---
layout: post
title: Syphilisation Update - 2020-11-15 - District Currencies and the Storyline
tag: syph
date: 2020-11-15
desc: Storyline support.
---


You can buy a very early version of Syphilisation [here](https://whynotgames.itch.io/nikhil-murthys-syphilisation). You can read about what *Syphilisation* is [here](/blog/syph/announce) and the manifesto for the game [here](/blog/syph/newManifesto).

## Work Done

Over the past couple of weeks, I updated the way that districts generate currencies and put in a better system for the storyline. Now, you can set up zones with districts, wonders and camps and give the whole thing bonus currency production depending on the comprising pieces. The story system now puts up cards that give the player explicit choices, such as deciding whether to direct your lashing out due to insecurities at others or at yourself. This has proved much more expressive, but needs much more content. I also added a menu for the full empire and added more information to the city menus.


Furthermore, I made a number of tweaks to the currency costs and so improved the early game flow. I still need to refine the midgame though. Additionally, I made lots of small playtest fixes and bug fixes.

## Interesting Fact

For the interesting fact this week, I'm going to put down a quote from Henry Polak on Gandhi's decision that drinking goat milk did not contradict his vow not to drink milk - "I only hope the improvement continues. I entirely share your feelings as regards his [Gandhi's] attitude. It seems to be wholly illogical; but I prefer his lack of logic and his life to his logic and his death. In any case his vow was illogical, and as two negatives make an affirmative, I am perfectly satisfied with the result."

