---
layout: post
title: 'Syphilisation Update - 2020-03-01'
tag: syph
date: 2020-03-01
desc: Syphilisation Update - 2020-03-01
---


You can read about what *Syphilisation* is [here](/blog/syph/announce) and the manifesto for the game [here](/blog/syph/newManifesto).

## Work Done

I put in two interesting features this week. I put in a timeline that players can put facts into. The history of the period is pretty complicated and my hope is that this feature will help players keep things in order.


I also cleaned up the UI for the new tech deck system and cleaned up the research tree to better support it. I still have a lot of playtesting to do here though. It's a very fundamental change to the game and I really like it because it hits the decolonial notes that I want. However, It's a tricky thing to integrate fully and I still need to spend the time on it that it will take to do it properly.

## Interesting Fact

This is an excerpt from Gandhi's autobiography *The Story of my experiments with truth* about Kasturbai's struggles with hemorrhages - "So when all my remedies had failed, I entreated her to give up salt and pulses. She would not agree, however much I pleaded with her, supporting myself with authorities. At last, she challenged me, saying that even I could not give up these articles if I was advised to do so. I was pained and equally delighted, delighted in that I got an opportunity to shower my love on her. I said to her ''You are mistaken. If I was ailing and the doctor advised me to give up these or any other articles, I should unhesitatingly do so. But there! Without any medical advice, I give up salt and pulses for one year, whether you do so or not.' She was rudely shocked and exclaimed in deep sorrow, 'Pray forgive me. Knowing you, I should not have provoked you. I promise to abstain from these things, but for heaven's sake take back your vow. This is too hard on me.' 'It is very good for you to forgo these articles. I have not the slightest doubt that you will be all the better without them. As for me, I cannot retract a vow seriously taken. And it is sure to benefit me, for all restraint, whatever prompts it, is wholesome for men. You will therefore leave me alone. It will be a test for me, and a moral support to you in carrying out your resolve.' So, she gave me up. 'You are too obstinate. You will listen to none.' she said, and sought relief in tears. I would like to count this incident as an instance of Satyagraha, and it is one of the sweetest recollections of my life. After this Kasturbai began to pick up quickly"


Gandhi called this domestic satyagraha, and it perfectly encapsulates him, the unorthodox nature of his approach, the surprising success he sometimes saw and above all, the peculiarities of his personality. Even his greatest supporters can hardly deny his particular pride and humourlessness or, more politely, his earnestness. He had a very clearly defined world view and saw everything through its lens.

