---
layout: post
title: Syphilisation Update - 2021-04-25 - History From Below and UI
tag: syph
date: 2021-04-25
desc: History From Below and UI
---


You can buy a very early version of Syphilisation [here](https://whynotgames.itch.io/nikhil-murthys-syphilisation). You can read about what *Syphilisation* is [here](/blog/syph/announce) and the manifesto for the game [here](/blog/syph/newManifesto).

## Work Done

I put in a few more history from below features. I updated culture to be simpler and focus entirely on the citizens and put in a balance between fatigue and enthusiasm so that you can burn out your entire civ if you focus too much on productivity. I also made the districts more autonomous. Now, they occasionally spread out into new territory themselves. Additionally, cities now sometimes choose what to build themselves instead of letting the players choose. Players can increase or reduce the autonomy of each city through projects.


I also set up popular support for campaigns. Earlier, you would have some people of your civ rise up to oppose most campaigns that you start. My idea was to represent more popular ideas with lower opposition, but it ended up feeling like you always had to fight against the people of the civ. Now, you will get some popular support as well as popular opposition and the degree of both depends on the campaign.


I spent the last two weeks on UI and stability fixes. The game plays better now, but I still need to do a performance pass. The game slows unbearably about 30 turns in.


This next week is for redoing the economy again though. I want fewer, bigger pieces. In particular, I'm going to compress the tech tree, but I'm also going to take a look at the units and regions. I'm also going to try to do more to show how small steps lead to bigger things. Right now, it gets hard to track the medium- and long-term goals and so the game drags.

## Interesting Fact

I'm sure you've seen it in the news, but India is in the throes of our biggest Covid crisis yet. We're approaching 350k new recorded cases daily, and the ground reality is likely far worse. My wife and I just do not leave our flat anymore. There's just too much going on for me to link anything in particular, but there are lots of resources online if you want to help. Please stay safe right now.

