---
layout: post
title: "Syphilisation Update - 2021-05-02 - Economy"
tag: syph
date: 2021-05-02
desc: Updating the economy to have fewer, bigger decisions
---


You can buy a very early version of Syphilisation [here](https://whynotgames.itch.io/nikhil-murthys-syphilisation). You can read about what *Syphilisation* is [here](/blog/syph/announce) and the manifesto for the game [here](/blog/syph/newManifesto).

## Work Done

The core of this week was restructuring the economy, especially the tech economy. I feel like the game currently overwhelms players with small, low-impact decisions. I wanted to roll some of those decisions together so as to make fewer, more impactful decisions. Essentially, instead of having three decisions and notifications around each of them, I wanted to compress things into a single decision and notification. The game felt like you were being drowned in unimportant information and this should fix that.


For the tech tree, this meant fewer techs and fewer decks and making both of those larger. By rolling techs together, the player should now get at least something of use from most of them no matter what their empire looks like. Bigger decks should be easier for the player to process and provide more of a goal to chase. Additionally, some decks now require multiple steps to unlock, which again should work to make them feel meaningful.


Furthermore, I set the units to be limited by the player and not the city. This way, the player will have fewer of them to manage and this also brings in the dynamic of making larger empires harder to manage. Finally, I set up more tiles that stand out. This way the player has obvious locations to settle in rather than needing to manually compare a lot of small icons.

## Interesting Fact

There is really no way to get across just how bad things are in India right now. This is a complete breakdown. Please do what you can to stay safe.

