
---
layout: post
title: Syphilisation Update - 2021-10-24 - Radha Storyline
tag: syph
date: 2021-10-24
desc: A new storyline for Pahal \ Radha
---


You can buy a very early version of Syphilisation  on [Steam](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1712530/Nikhil_Murthys_Syphilisation/) or [Itch](https://whynotgames.itch.io/nikhil-murthys-syphilisation). You can read about what *Syphilisation* is [here](/blog/syph/announce) and the manifesto for the game [here](/blog/syph/newManifesto).

## Work Done

This week I put in a new storyline for Pahal / Radha. I feel that there's not enough of a draw to pull people into the mid- and late-game and my hope is that putting in a bit more narrative will do that as well as humanizing the other players further. I'll try out the single storyline for a while more and decide if I want to put in storylines for the rest of the players. There's just a lot in the game already and I do really want to streamline it as much as possible. The next week is the final major feature for a bit. After that, I have an extended period of streamlining planned.

## Interesting Fact

Here's Churchill regretting his racism in 1952 from Lord Moran's biography of him - "'When I was in Lloyd George's Government I wanted to bring in radical reforms in Egypt, to tax the Pashas and make life worth while for the fellaheen. If we had done that we might be there now. When you learn to think of a race as inferior beings it is difficult to get rid of that way of thinking; when I was a subaltern the Indian did not seem to me equal to the white man.'


Was he, too, having second thoughts? Was the India of his youth, Kipling's India, a mistake, after all? Had he been wrong about the Empire? He had gone out to grass. When he went to his compartment to rest I had a feeling of relief that we were at the end of our journey; an hour later when I called him he said he had slept like a stone."

